Okay?
Okay.
You got the tape going?
The tape is rolling.
Okay, what I've done, Mr. Knight, is simply to, as I said, you've done so much.
You've been so involved in the field that it was hard to get a handle on how to approach
this.
But what I've done is sort of divide up into different areas.
And I'll ask you some brief questions on each one.
And the first one would involve your entry into science fiction.
You came through the fan structure, and I wondered if you could explain how you were
introduced to that.
I sort of thought that might come up, and I was rooting about it really yesterday.
Actually, I was thinking, what if you asked me, what do I attribute my gigantic success?
I would have to say mostly luck.
I can trace my career back through a series of just astounding coincidences, really unlikely
things, all the way back to Louis Gernsback.
And I can demonstrate that at each of these points, if something rather unlikely had not
happened, I wouldn't be doing what I'm doing.
For instance, if Hugo Gernsback had not come to this country from Luxembourg when he was
14, and started a magazine called Amazing Stories in 1926, you'll see as I go on that
none of the other things could have happened.
So, here I am, a 13-year-old kid in the River of Auric and reading science fiction magazines,
really turned on to let him.
And through the back pages of one of these magazines, Super Science Stories, then edited
by Frederick Bull, I found out about fanzines and wrote away for a few, and this way got
into correspondence with the Futurians, including Bull and Wallheim and Thoreau Kornworth,
a bunch of others, Robert Dudley Lownd.
I was trying to write some stories, and I sent a couple to Lownd who was then acting
as a sort of half-assed literary agent.
And all these things added up together until Ronald A. Wallheim got an offer from a publisher
who edited a new science fiction magazine.
He had no budget, whatever, for stories.
And he knew about me from Lownd.
Lownd wrote to me saying, will you donate this story to the first issue of Super Science
Stories?
And of course, I said yes, I would have paid for the privilege.
And as a consequence of that, the Futurians invited me to come and be a Futurian and live
one of their communal dwellings in New York when I was 18.
Terribly unlikely things, just a series of them, even as far as I've gone.
And I lived there a couple of years doing a little illustration for magazines and trying
to write.
And that's not the teaching very much.
And then in 1943, again, this Fred Pohl got me a job at popular publications where he
was working.
I needed an assistant editor, and he knew I would work cheap.
So he got me an interview, and I got the job, spent about a year there, and I'm perfectly
convinced now, looking back, that it was that training at popular publications that enabled
me to write fiction professionally.
And the training that you couldn't get in any school in, I'd rather you could get it
now, but it was kind of soaked in because I was reading the flush pile, the unsolicited
names, and it became personally obvious after a while what the difference was between the
stuff we were rejecting and the stuff we were printing.
So when I quit that job, I started writing and went on from there.
I did another stint later at popular, 1949.
And I also worked for a while at the Scott Narrative Literary Agency, which was a reading
agency, where we would get these awful manuscripts and have to criticize them.
I think that helped me a good deal, too.
If I could recommend the writing course, the training course for young writers, I would
certainly say it's too bad that those told magazines don't exist anymore.
If you could possibly get an editorial job or anything of that kind, even a terrible job
in the reading scene literature agency, grab it.
Okay.
We talked to Frederick Paul some time ago, and he told us a little about the Futurians,
and of course you've written a book on that, too.
Could you be a little more specific, sort of briefly, what your relationship with the Futurians was,
what exactly they did?
Well, the Futurians were a very informal organization of science fiction fans who were trying to
become professionals, and in some cases had had had little bits of success here and there,
and published stories.
I told you that Wallheim was editing a magazine before him, Paul, had become an editor, and
after him, Lowndes also became an editor.
They were writing and publishing a little bit, not much.
And to save money because they were all very poor.
They lived in a counting old apartment.
At that time in New York in the late 30s and early 40s, there were lots of apartments that were very cheap.
I forget now.
I think the rental might have been about $30 bucks for a four bedroom railroad flat.
If you had four people living there, it was quite cheap.
And we divided up the household duties around to the cooking and I did the fish washing, which I hated.
We were dirt poor.
We really didn't have any money at all.
We rolled our own cigarettes and we bought the cheapest wine we could find, which was something like 85 cents a gallon.
Our major entertainment was walking down from the 102nd Street or 103rd, it was down to Times Square,
and looking at the bright lights and having a cup of coffee in the cafeteria and then walking home.
I read once where your first professional sale was a cartoon. Is that right?
I suppose that's right. I hadn't thought about that.
It was a cartoon and I sent it to Amazing Stories, which was before I went to New York, before I told a story.
I must have been 17.
I think it was some other ones I didn't like.
Okay.
If I'm correct here, your earliest work in the fanzines was of a critical nature.
I wonder if that's true. Why you started out with that? Did you just have a critical bent or did you not want to write creatively at first?
I was trying to write fiction at that time and not succeeding. It didn't finish the story.
I didn't have any idea how you got to the end of the story.
But I was extremely critical and starting like any other 17 or 18 year old fan.
The first stuff I did for fanzines was not critical in the usual sense.
I wasn't book reviewed or that kind of thing.
That's just a parody once we found some of the things that I thought were really outstandingly dumb in the magazine.
Funny enough, it was a parody.
I did a lot of that.
But when I say a lot, I lie because I only published two issues with my fanzines.
I did very little for other magazines.
It was much later.
Sorry, about 1945 I think.
I did a long critical essay about that and wrote for one of Larry Shaw's amateur magazines.
That was really the first critical work in the usual sense that I did.
From what I've read of your collected essays and so forth, the things that you've done in terms of criticism,
I would say that probably your major concern overall has been to deal with the question of science fiction
to raise its literary standards perhaps, to make it something more than just a second class kind of literature.
I wondered if you thought that science fiction could ever compete with mainstream and characterization, human relations and so forth,
or is it too limited to do that?
Well, that was my position then.
I didn't see any reason why science fiction shouldn't be as good as any other kind of fiction can be.
I don't think now that it ever has been.
And I have a few doubts now about whether it can be.
But at that time, as you say, my effort was to try to raise the standards, improve the breed,
mainly by shooting cripples.
You maybe have some doubts now whether science fiction could ever produce somebody like, say, a Dostoevsky then.
Yeah.
Of course mainstream hasn't produced another Dostoevsky either, so these comparisons are really not much help.
But in the 50s, there was a really strong invigorating movement to upgrade science fiction in certain ways by lifting it out of the pulp formulas.
H. L. Gold was responsible for part of that and Tony Boucher for other part.
It really seemed to me that we were on a plateau which could quite well be succeeded by another plateau and so on upwards.
And I think that was what I was pushing for.
I haven't seen it happen.
We have some very good work being done, very literary work,
but it doesn't seem to me that the field is a hole as advanced as much as I expected it would beyond the 1950s.
Would you see any big changes in the field since you began?
Oh, muchos.
I started reading in 1933 and picked up all the back issues I could find in secondhand bookstores in Portland.
The situation in the 30s was a little fragmented.
By that time, Gernsback had lost his magazines and he didn't have Gernsback in SF anymore.
His idea was to teach science through science fiction.
He didn't always do it, but that was his ideal.
And then you had his successor, an amazing story, T. O'Connor Sloan, who was then in his 80s.
I never met him, but he was described as a marvelous, white-bearded old gentleman who considered science fiction a sort of a hobby.
He liked to use archaeology, and he really did not have any of the technocratic pervers that Gernsback had.
In fact, he said in print more than once that he didn't believe that the space travel would ever happen.
And then you had a founding story, which in the early 30s was strictly a rather low-grade adventure magazine.
Their contribution to the field was to import the stereotypes of adventure fiction, which worked very well.
And we still see that thread running through science fiction right up to the present time.
And then in the late 30s, 37, 38, John Campbell took over as Tannily.
And the moralists transformed it. He raised the level in a certain direction.
He wanted scientific accuracy, or at least a semblance of it, a lack of scientific ignorance.
He wanted plausible stories about the future, not the usual triad of a brave hero and his gutters and butties and the fainting heroine and the mad scientist.
So in that sense, and also because he got it stable, and very good writers in the early 40s, that raised the level considerably, markedly.
And then, as I say, gold, voucher, and others came along in the 50s, and there was another quantum leap.
And it seemed to me that that was the natural course of events.
And what we wanted was another quantum leap, and so on, until there would be no distinguishable difference in terms of quality between science fiction and mainstream.
And as I say, I don't think that that happened.
Some of those quantum leaps in the past, which you've mentioned, have been due, I think, to, as you said, to some of the more influential editors.
Do we have editors today who still have that kind of influence?
Well, I think we certainly have influential editors, but I don't think they're trying to do that.
I think they're trying to produce what they conceive the reading public wants in the very successful editors.
George Souther, for example, was a very sharp editor.
And Stanley Spitt, I think, was doing an excellent job with analog.
And the first ed firm that was employing along with fantasy and science fiction for many years, focuses on a lot of really neat stuff.
Fantasy and science fiction has always had a more literary cast, not only in the magazines, partly because it's about half and half fantasy and science fiction, as the name would suggest.
And for some reason, the literary quality of fantasy writing has tended to be higher than that of science fiction.
Okay, listen, when you began your orbit anthologies in 1966, what kind of hopes did you have for them? What was your idea behind them?
Well, in the first place, I just thought there was a marketing strategy, though, that hadn't been explored.
Please forgive my cross.
Well, it seemed to me that with hardcover publication, if you could get book club and paperback, you'd have a basis on which you could say very good rates and get a broad audience.
And that because it was hardcovered, originally, you wouldn't have to worry about some of the pulp cliches and the juvenile readers.
And that didn't work either. Orbit never did achieve the sales that I hope for or publishes hope for.
It's got a few book club sales, but not many. It wasn't every issue. It should have been.
And the paperback never did sell very well.
After I went to hardcover with the series, they couldn't get paperback at all, and that was what made them cancel it after a while.
They hung on quite a long time. They were very decent about it. But eventually they thought it just wasn't going to happen.
Well, was that the first anthology of original science fiction that was published?
No, it was not. Fred Poole was in a series called Star. Let me think. That must have been in the late 50s, I forget.
And before him, there had been a couple of one-shot original anthologies. I forgot who the editors were. Let me think.
I used to... I think the first one actually goes back quite a way. It was something rather inconspicuous and nobody paid much attention.
But Fred was the first series of anthologies of original science fiction stories.
In terms of the, I guess, the literary level of the Orbit series, you must be proud of that.
Some of those years, I think the majority of the Nebula Award stories came from Orbit, didn't they?
For a couple of years it was storing heavily in the Nebula's, yeah.
But I don't really know whether that has anything to do with the quality of the stories or just because I was conspicuous at the time. I was the president of SFWA.
Yeah, that leads me on to the next area I want to talk about. You had a large part in the founding of that. Could you explain that you're part in that and why you were interested in starting it?
Well, about 10 years earlier it must have been.
There was an effort to form a guild of science fiction writers and they went to one or two of their meetings.
And it was pitiful because they used the program and procedure and they had 50 people all arguing.
And they finally hammered out a sort of set of bylaws and elected officers and then nothing happened. Officers all went home and died.
And I realized at that time that there was a very easy way to do it. You didn't have to have the big meetings and you didn't have to have all that operated.
One person could do it, but I didn't think I was conspicuous about it at that time. I didn't think anybody knew who I was.
Later on I was becoming more visible and I realized that I probably could do it.
The precipitating event was by receiving in the same week three requests for an apology reprint for flat fees, which I thought was unfair to the audience.
So I wrote a flyer, it's a one-page thing, advising authors not to sign agreements for flat fee anthology reprints and saying,
I'd like more information of this kind, send in your three bucks and become a charter member of SFWA.
I got a plock of responses and when I had about 78 I declared them the charter members and wrote a set of bylaws and sent that around and we were more or less in business.
Okay, and what did you serve? One or two years as president at the first?
I did two terms.
Okay, and you'd have to look back. Wouldn't you have to judge it today as a successful organization?
I think so. I think it's done more for members than any other writers organization that I know of.
We got about 9,000 bucks in back royalties for Tolkien and a lot of things, or isn't that awful if your name just popped out of my head.
And we've settled a lot of grievances. The latest one was a really terrible new contract which Davis Publications began to use.
Just an awful contract, god we got both. Every right can be conceivably attached to a story and we make such a sense that they withdrew it.
Okay.
About a year ago we talked to Norman Spinrad, I guess who's the current president, and he said he was interested in working on internationalizing and hooking up with some of the European organizations. Do you think that's a good idea?
There's a lot of feeling among the members that we ought to be more international than we are. I always resisted that because it didn't seem to me that we could work effectively for writers living abroad, or not publishing in this country. I guess it's harmless. I don't see if it could do us any damage.
Okay, let me move on to one more area before I get down to just a few questions on your own work. I guess you realize I'll probably have to ask something about the Milford Science Fiction Writers Conference. Could you also give me a brief statement on the genesis of that?
Well this was in the mid-50s, and for some reason Judy Merrill and I got talking about the idea of having a Writers Conference in Milford, Pennsylvania, which is a very small town in the Poconos.
It was sort of the way you might talk about building a building with basement. Nothing was done about this until Judy and I went to the World Con in Detroit at the kid was, and discovered that we were much more better at it than we realized.
Well that energized us, and we thought that possibly if we invited people to the Alfred Bay, they could actually come. And we sent out an invitation. We got Jim Wisch to join the Masthead.
We had a lot of people come, and we had more respectability. And this was the year in which the World Con was in New York, so it was easier for people to get out there directly afterwards.
And we got 40 people. Just amazing. It was quite intense. We had evening discussions that went on for several hours. People raising the boards of hands to do the next to speak. Quite exciting.
So we decided to do it annually. After the first one, we didn't have a World Con near us to provide a lot of people. The attendance dropped to, I want to know, 15 or so.
When it gradually came up again, we began to get a bunch of regulars who came every year, and there would be a few more and so on.
So in the later years, we got up to about 25 or 30, which was really as much as we could handle in the workshops, which by then had become a regular feature of no free.
Where everybody would submit a manuscript or two. And then every morning we'd all sit around having read these manuscripts and discuss them in turn around the circuit.
This is probably an obvious question, but I want to ask it anyhow to see your response. Do you think writers are, what kind of benefit would writers get from that? Have they been benefited?
Well, this is a question that Katie and I ask ourselves every year because we teach at Clarean, which is an outgrowth of military.
And you can certainly point to what's the distinguished ex-military diets and very nice visited distinguished diets.
But whether that proves anything or not is another question. You have to have a controlled group, which we have never had.
I can testify that if you could help me in a specific way with workshop helps, people point out what it was and your stories that you absolutely haven't seen, sometimes crucially.
And again, just for my own experience, it seems to me that learning to criticize other people's stories technically enables you eventually to criticize your own, which is more critical than your own.
It becomes a little bit easier to see the flaws in your own way.
Okay, you're not associated with the Milford Conference anymore then?
No, we had to stop doing it five or six years ago. Don't hold me to the number because I'm very weak on dates.
It turned out that year that we had signed up for so many things in the summer that we were going to have to drop something.
And it couldn't be Clarean. We were committed to that. So we had to stop doing Milford.
And it wasn't really a painful loss to us by that time because our old gang was dispersed.
We had moved away from Milford, first to Florida, then to Oregon.
And it just wasn't the same thing anymore. It was turning into more of a sort of mini-Clarean where you had the chiefs from the Indians.
Kaby and I were the chiefs from the rest of the Indians, which had not been the case at all at Milford.
That was by design and practice. A group of peers.
So what Milford, as it just turned out, had become sort of a duplication for us of what we were doing at Clarean.
But Ed Bryant has done it a couple of times, not every year.
And Denver or...
But the difference between the two, like you said, that Clarean would be more for actual beginners, where you would be the teacher rather than peers.
Okay, let me just move on while we have some time to your own work because I have some questions on that.
I'm not sure what your intended titles were, but the two novels, A for Anything and Analog Men, they're also known as the People Maker and Hell's Pavement.
What are the titles you prefer?
Analog Men and Hell's Pavement were my titles. They were retitled by paperback editors. They used to do that a lot. They don't do it so much anymore.
Okay, the...
A for Anything was called the People Maker, though, wasn't it?
No, it was for A for Anything. The first book publication was the paperback, which was retitled by the paperback editors.
But I published a portion of it in magazines, and one of them was at the title that I prefer in A for Anything.
I hate the title, the People Maker.
Okay, in that book, the A for Anything, I'm sure you've gotten questions on this. In fact, I know you have.
But the totally unexpected ending that comes up, at least I as a reader expected the protagonist, I forget his name right now, to become sort of a good guy, to overcome his training and to let the old slave live and to marry the woman and so forth.
Why did you choose to have him revert to his stratified slave-oriented society?
Well, what you're talking about, the ending that you expected is the cliche ending, romantic and sentimental. I wanted to do a realistic ending.
I thought that the happy ending to that, you know, conventional quote, happy ending to that novel would have been false.
And this was one of the things that interested me in writing the novel in the first place, or anything I've done except for the plastic.
I was trying to do science fiction realistically. I thought that was part of the new way that was to call that thing, the way of realism that came in the 50s.
And I was awfully acquired, still am, of the romantic clichés of science fiction.
Okay, the device that you put into that novel, the gizmo, the transform society, it's kind of ironic that a device like that which can give people whatever they want would lead to a slave master society.
Do you think that's the way it would work or would it be being deliberately pessimistic?
Well, I thought it was logical. I was counter punching in that novel against some other treatments of the same device, the same gadget that had been published before, which I thought were compouts.
For instance, George York's Metro of One, in which the matter that the duplicator was invented, and of course chaos ensued, and he rescued the world by inventing a kind of currency that couldn't be duplicated.
And that was one too many rabbits out of the hat, I thought.
So, again, I just wanted to do it realistically. It seems to me that if I had made a good case that in fact slavery would be the result.
I admit that it was an imaginative projection. I don't necessarily defend the idea that that's what would happen with practice.
And another writer, several years later, I'll think of his name if I possibly can, wrote a story in response to that one, which really delighted me.
I like this dialogue, I think, which in which he showed that a good marketer, a good business man could get along perfectly well and make money, even if there was a matter to duplicate. Marvelous stories.
When A for Anything and Analog Min, when those were published in the 50s, there wasn't much critical science fiction.
Things like the space merchants, your books remind me of, were you criticizing a consumer-oriented society? There wasn't much of that those days, was there?
No, I think Krett Voles and Jero Kermblitz, the space merchant's gravy plan, as it was called, was a source of the magazine, was stunning rejection of the kind of dramatic cliché that has been prominent in science fiction up to a lot of time.
There had been social satire in science fiction for a long time before during science fiction, and the magazine published some of it, but it was pretty remote. It didn't have the cutting edge that the gravy plan had.
Maybe just one question on analog min. I think that you're contrasting the scientist, Kusko or Kusko, whatever his name is, who invents, of course, the device which causes the analog and leads to the kind of society they have in laudermilk, the more humanitarian type.
But in the wrong ways, they're both very narrow, and are you saying that they're both using the wrong methods?
I'm not sure why you call laudermilk narrow.
Well, I guess because he would use killing to achieve his aims.
Well, again, I was dragged into that. I liked laudermilk, and I would personally, I would have been personally happy to make him just a nice old man.
But logically, I couldn't see any way to keep that organization alive or to achieve the bane without killing anybody. I didn't like doing that.
And I thought it would give a sort of moral ambiguity to the whole underground, but I would rather do that than paper over the problem.
Okay, I understand. In other words, at the end of that novel, when, gosh, I forget his name, Arthur or something like that, when he becomes part of the underground movement and he ends the novel admiring laudermilk, then the reader is supposed to feel the same way in your estimation.
Well, in fact, I think I also provided a viewpoint character who would have had a little more doubts about what laudermilk was up to. But it couldn't have been Arthur because he wasn't that sophisticated.
Okay, in reference to both of those books and to some of your short stories, particularly some of your better known ones like Country of the Kind or Masks, I see a strain of pessimism in your work.
Is that simply a counter to the romance and the stereotypes you saw in science fiction?
I'm not a pessimistic person in my daily life. I think we're optimistic, but I'm cheerful most of the time. And I have a lot of fun. I don't worry too much about disasters in the future.
I certainly don't enjoy seeing people slip on banana peels, but I like irony and surprising people in history. I just like very much the story that because everything's going to be rosy and because it's a very plausible way and everybody laps it up, I don't know why.
Okay, in Country of the Kind, maybe I'm seeing too much in that, but I caught maybe a little satire on humanitarianism, overdoing humanitarianism, for instance.
No, I don't think that was what I was after. This came out of a remark in Hill's Pavement. Let me think. It actually was in Laudermilk's journal when he talked about a dream he had had of the future they were going to achieve, in which everybody would be psychically healthy.
There probably wouldn't be any art or any humor. And I think I picked that up from something in Robert Graves' novel, Watch the North Wind Rise. His future society was like that. Everyone was terrifically healthy, mentally.
But there were no jokes. Nobody laughed at jokes. And I think the art, that part didn't come into grace, but I just began to wonder, would there be any artistic creation in the world in which everybody was completely healthy, mentally?
Again, this was a proposition that seemed to me to be interesting to us. I wouldn't defend it necessarily. I think there's something to it, though. I think there's...the art comes out of some kind of a pinch to get in your childhood.
And that if you really had a healthy society, there simply wouldn't be anything to make good art out of it.
Just recently, I crossed a reference to a painting of Picasso which I'd never heard of before. It's called War and Peace. It's in two parts. On the left side you see war and there are all kinds of fascinating demons running around.
On the right side, all I could think of was peace with a bunch of old men playing handpipes. Which is quite well. And it just seemed to me that a completely healthy and peaceful world would be rather what it is.
I don't know.
Okay. I imagine one of your better known stories is that humorous one, To Serve Man. I wondered if there was an impetus behind that one.
You wondered if there was a witch.
An impetus or a particular idea from which it originated.
Well, that came out of her remark by my second wife when she was pregnant with our first child. She was looking forward to the delivery and she imagined the doctor holding up the kid and laughing out of the buttocks and herself saying, give him one for me.
And that became the last line of the story. No, not the last line, but pretty close to it.
Yeah, I remember now I read that.
Story ideas can come out of anywhere. Something somebody says, just a word or phrase or something you see in the grocery store. Sometimes folk tribulations, you can't imagine where the story tells the story, but it sort of accretes itself around almost any sharp object.
One of your later books, I think the stories go back a ways, but one of the later published books that you've had the world in Thorin, to me was of course very different than most of your other work. And I wondered why you decided to try your hand at fantasy.
What makes you call it fantasy? I'm curious because a lot of people have bought that.
Well, I don't know what else to call it.
Why wouldn't you call it fantasy?
Well, okay, one of my questions was going to be you provide some background there. For instance, the I get the idea if it's the earth that it had been overheated and some scientists have had to move it.
And perhaps creatures went underground and formed these societies and caverns.
I guess if that background were extrapolated or extended, it could be seen as science fiction.
I guess I didn't make that plain enough. I thought I had in the little introductory section of the chapter, I thought I had laid out more or less what happened.
For some of us about to go over, people made a spaceship out of the earth and propelled it out of the solar system.
It also went underground to accommodate the increasing population.
But the planet under the control of a central computer.
And then there was a war which destroyed civilization.
The complete control was turned over to computers that were directed to do whatever was necessary for the welfare of human beings.
And since the computers had not been told what welfare meant to human beings, it had to try to figure out what was the best society.
And therefore, having sealed up these caverns in order to prevent another war, it promoted the growth of different kinds of cultures, each one in each little cavern.
Hoping to find out eventually what the best one was.
Hopeful path.
But that was the world which the model takes place.
I really thought I had indicated that sufficiently, but perhaps not.
Well, you did near the end of the book, but I think maybe what threw me off in particular was the beginning of it where you sort of present a Scandinavian type society at the beginning which immediately connoted to me a middle ages and the medievalism and that kind of fantasy.
Yes, I know, but there have been lots of science fiction stories, I think too many in fact written about future worlds and that you've learned back to feudalism.
Okay, a little earlier you mentioned that when you were, I think you made a statement about fantasy, did you say that fantasy could be deeper than science fiction?
No, I didn't mean to say that.
I'll be talking about that term in fantasy and science fiction.
I think the quality of that magazine, although variable, has been sort of the quality of the writing has been a little higher than most science fiction magazines because of the presence of the fantasy writers in it.
There's a long tradition of literacy, good writing in fantasy which we haven't had in science fiction.
Do you have a useful distinction between, that could distinguish science fiction and fantasy for me?
Sure.
Science fiction is a branch of fantasy, that's all it is.
That branch which appeals, which, let me start over, which helps to create a suspension of disbelief in the reader by appealing to the authority of science.
That doesn't mean there's necessarily any science in the stories that are usually it, but it shows up this cloud of authority by referring to that and then you can relax and say, well, this is the fantasy that's actually happening.
Okay, I have about just two or three more questions, can you handle that?
Sure.
Okay.
What's your reaction to critics' response to your own work?
Well, really, I haven't had a whole lot of trouble with critics.
When I do get an unfavorable review, I consider the source, I mean, say, well, that turkey, do you understand the book, or anything, whatever.
I very seldom had to reply to a critic. I think it's a mug game, do so, unless you can nail them to the wall with some factual errors.
Okay.
I got a hold of that volume, and I think it was Barry Malzberg put it together, the best of Damon and I, I think it was.
Near the end of that book was your story down there, in which you remarked that hardly anybody had seen the purpose of that one.
So I worked on it.
Tell me what you thought.
Okay.
A society which is too sterile, which has removed itself from its roots.
This man can write stories with actually the computer writes the stories. He just chooses certain things, buttons to push.
But he finds that he needs something which is more of a low life, nitty gritty, real life nature, and he seeks it out in a sort of a clandestine way.
That's right. And I think the only part that people didn't get, because I really didn't want to say it, was that sometime in the recent past there's been a race war, and the black skinned people of this country have been wiped out.
And everybody else was carrying a terrific load of guilt.
There were no more Negroes in Maryland.
Instead, we reported Appalachian peoples to the place.
If you look at the dialogue in the way they refer to it, you see that they are Appalachian peoples.
The little boys tucking into a platter of frozen greens and so on. They're white, but they're exotic.
And he's attracted to it, prostituted, which is in the last scene, because he's so dark that he might almost be midway.
Okay, good. Could you tell me what kind of future work plans you have for your own fiction?
I'm bearing down on the last couple of chapters of a novel.
She's in the contract at Berkeley. It's called The Man in the Tree.
I should have told you that the last one, The World of Thuring, is a book that I was hung up on for 15 years,
and I was locked on it intermittently for all that time. I'd write a chapter and then I'd come to another stone wall, and I'd hit it back off.
Finally got to the finish, and that book was locked.
Now I can write it.
A novel of speed, but it's not the way it is.
The book I think was that I set myself as an impossible cat.
As you know, that novel is divided into episodes almost every one of which takes place in a new culture.
I can do a bunch of cultures, and it's history, customs, and all that stuff, and it's just absurdly difficult.
One of the episodes in that published separately is not either short stories.
That's why Fred Paul ran, I think, the Trees in Galaxy.
We have to go pretty far back in the files to find them because it took me 15 years to finish it.
Okay, listen, Mr. Nye, I could keep on asking questions for a long time, but I think this is probably enough. We've taken enough of your time.
Listen, what we do is now we will edit these into shows.
Our program is aired every day for five minutes, so we'll probably get five or six shows out of this.
We're probably talking about maybe six weeks to two months into the future, so when they're edited and done, we'll send you copies.
Okay, and listen, one more question. Do you think if we wrote in a few months, your wife might consent to an interview also?
Sure, she'd love to.
Okay, we might do that then, and listen, we appreciate your time very much.
Well, it's been a pleasure.
And keep up to work, okay?
Okay.
Okay, goodbye.